<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Introduction</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="frontmatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="introduction" epub:type="introduction">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Introduction</h2>

			<p>Ashton-Kirk, who has solved so many mysteries, is himself
something of a problem even to those who know him best. Although
young, wealthy, and of high social position, he is nevertheless
an indefatigable worker in his chosen field. He smiles when men
call him a detective. "No; only an investigator," he says.</p>
<p>He has never courted notoriety; indeed, his life has been more
or less secluded. However, let a man do remarkable work in any
line and, as Emerson has observed, "the world will make a beaten
path to his door."</p>
<p>Those who have found their way to Ashton-Kirk's door have been
of many races and interests. Men of science have often been
surprised to find him in touch with the latest discoveries,
scholars searching among strange tongues and dialects, and others
deep in tattered scrolls, ancient tablets and forgotten books
have been his frequent visitors. But among them come many who
seek his help in solving problems in crime.</p>
<p>"I'm more curious than some other fellows, that's all," is the
way he accounts for himself. "If a puzzle is put in front of me I
can't rest till I know the answer." At any rate his natural bent
has always been to make plain the mysterious; each well hidden
step in the perpetration of a crime has always been for him an
exciting lure; and to follow a thread, snarled by circumstances
or by another intelligence has been, he admits, his chief
delight.</p>
<p>There are many strange things to be written of this remarkable
man—but this, the case of the numismatist Hume, has been
selected as the first because it is one of the simplest, and yet
clearly illustrates Ashton-Kirk's peculiar talents. It will also
throw some light on the question, often asked, as to how his
cases come to him.</p>
<p>A second volume that shows the investigator deep in another
mystery, even more intricate and puzzling than this, is entitled
"Ashton-Kirk and the Scarlet Scapular."</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
